As I walk through the valley of the shadow of death
I take a look at my life, and realize there's nothin' left
'Cause I've been blastin' and laughin' so long, that
Even my momma thinks that my mind is gone
But I ain't never crossed a man that didn't deserve it
Me be treated like a punk, you know that's unheard of
You better watch how you talkin', and where you walkin'
Or you and your homies might be lined in chalk
I really hate to trip, but I gotta loc
As they croak, I see myself in the pistol smoke
Fool, I'm the kinda G the little homies wanna be like
On my knees in the night, sayin' prayers in the streetlight

They've been spendin' most their lives livin' in the gangsta's paradise
They've been spendin' most their lives livin' in the gangsta's paradise
We keep spendin' most our lives livin' in the gangsta's paradise
We keep spendin' most our lives livin' in the gangsta's paradise

Look at the situation they got me facin'
I can't live a normal life, I was raised by the state
So I gotta be down with the hood team
Too much television watchin' got me chasin' dreams
I'm a educated fool with money on my mind
Got my ten in my hand, and a gleam in my eye
I'm a loc'd out gangsta, set trippin' banger
And my homies is down, so don't arouse my anger
Fool, death ain't nothin' but a heartbeat away
I'm livin' life do or die, what can I say?
I'm 23 now, but will I live to see 24?

They've been spendin' most their lives livin' in the gangsta's paradise
They've been spendin' most their lives livin' in the gangsta's paradise
We keep spendin' most our lives livin' in the gangsta's paradise
We keep spendin' most our lives livin' in the gangsta's paradise

Power and the money, money and the power
Minute after minute, hour after hour
Everybody's runnin', but half of them ain't lookin'
It's goin' on in the kitchen, but I don't know what's cookin'
They say I gotta learn, but nobody's here to teach me
If they can't understand it, how can they reach me?
I guess they can't, I guess they won't
I guess they frontin', that's why I know my life is out of luck, fool!

They've been spendin' most their lives livin' in the gangsta's paradise
They've been spendin' most their lives livin' in the gangsta's paradise
We keep spendin' most our lives livin' in the gangsta's paradise
We keep spendin' most our lives livin' in the gangsta's paradise

Tell me, why are we so blind to see
That the ones we hurt are you and me?
Tell me, why are we so blind to see
That the ones we hurt are you and me?
A modern person cannot imagine their life without TV. It is a source of interesting information, fun, and sometimes addiction. Everyone can find here something to the own taste. One may watch a documentary, a soap opera, a game show, a cartoon, news, etc. I do not often watch soap operas as I find them dull. Sometimes, I watch news or a documentary, for I like to learn about important events that just have happened in the world or about interesting people and historical events. As I am not a hot-tempered person, game shows, where people play games in order to win money or prizes, do not attract me very much. I like to learn useful information that can make my life easier and more beautiful.

One of my hobbies is fashion. There are a lot of TV programmes that give in-formation about the latest trends in this sphere. My favourite programme is "Your Style". It is a weekly programme, and I try to watch it each time it appears on TV. It starts with giving the latest news from the world of fashion, and showing the most interesting collections of the famous designers. Then, fashion experts give their advice, how one may find their own style and look attractive. I have already learned how to combine the colours, how to choose the right length of a dress, how to look elegant and charming. Clothes influence our character and mood and form he first impression about us. That's why it is so important for me to find my own style in clothes. They say, I always look attractive, elegant and fashionable. That's because I am keen on fashion. They say, fashion is international. But how else could I learn about the latest fashion trends if there were no TV?
There is a photo from my family album. This is one of the latest photos. My whole family is in it. There are four of us. My parents are in the centre. To begin with, I am going to talk about my father. He is neither old nor young and works as a businessman at the office. He is a handsome man with dark hair just beginning to go grey. As he is a bread-maker in the family, he often works overtime. He is sociable, sincere and reliable. I can rely on him in any situation.

My mother is a few years younger than my father. She looks slim and pretty in the photo, so she is in life. She is an elegant and an intelligent woman. She loves my father and the whole family. She does a lot for us. Shopping and cooking for the family are among her every-day chores. She is a university teacher and is re­spected both by her students and colleagues. I must admit, she is a very understand­ing person and often is the first to give a helping hand in a difficult situation.

In front of my parents sits my grandmother, my mother's mother. I do not have other grandparents. She is retired now. To tell you the truth, I do not feel the generation gap between us. She would listen to my endless stories about my friends and my university life. I do not always follow her advice, but I should say, my granny is a wise person and an easy-going one. They say, I look similar to her. Maybe, that's why I'm sitting near her. Here 4 of us are happy and smiling.
One cannot live without friends. It is important for every one to share the happy moments and feel sympathy and support in a difficult situation. Making friends is easy, but one needs time to call someone the best friend. I am happy to have such a person in my life. My best friend's name is Olya. We are not very much alike but that does not matter. We understand each other and we are always ready to give a helping hand. Olya is 21 and she is a very smart person. She is one of the best students in our group. We support each other in any situation. She can easily find the right words to comfort or encourage me.

Olya is very beautiful. She has long hair, a slim figure, beautiful eyes and a charming smile. She is a kind and sincere person, open-hearted and easy-going. Her hobby is dancing. When she is on the stage, you forget everything and enjoy her dancing.

When I visit her at her home, she always cooks something tasty. I like being at her home. She has a friendly family, her mother is a wise woman, and they can easily understand each other I think they are not only close relatives but also close friends. I sometimes ask her mother for advice and she finds the right words for me. Olya takes very much after her mother, that's why it is so pleasant to communicate with her. I am happy to have such a friend as Olya.
Shopping is a new kind of hobby or just a waste of time? A lot of people find it the best treatment for a bad mood. Buying new clothes may bring pleasant emotions and change image for the better. But a lot of people consider shopping to be a waste of time and money. Men usually do not like to go shopping very much. And women cannot resist the temptation of buying a new becoming dress.

I am a girl of 20 and consider clothes to be very important in my life. I like to go shopping when I need something new. Usually I do not buy anything at once. I like to try on several dresses of different styles and cut, till I choose what suits me best. I can say, that's one of my hobbies. When I have some free time I can walk along the streets for hours, look at the shop windows and decide what could suit me best. When I need a dress for a special occasion, I go shopping with my mother. She is keen on fashion and may help me choose the best cut and style. Sometimes I go shopping with my best friend Tanya; we usually help each other to buy clothes for a new season.

Buying food is not so interesting for me. I usually do not have much time for that. That's why I often go to the nearest supermarket, where I may buy everything I need. Along with fish, milk, fruit and vegetables that I usually buy, I also choose something sweet, like biscuits or a cake. That makes shopping in a supermarket more pleasant.
Have you chosen a diet for yourself? This article may help you in this.
No, say an increasingly vocal group of health and nutrition professionals.
Yes, say others in the field: Eat meat in moderation; it's a nutrient-dense food, and a little goes a long way toward supplying certain vitamins. Here, you'll find both sides of the story whether you choose to eat or pass it up for ethical or healthy reasons, here's what you need to know.
"Meat is an excellent source of good nutrition. I don't know a better source of iron or other elements — copper, zinc. With a vegetarian diet it's difficult to get the elements you need." Paul Saltman, Ph. D., University of Carolina, San Diego.
"It's wrong to put down a food simply because excessive amounts can cause health problems. Consumed in moderate amounts, meat is perfectly good for your health. The body needs certain building blocks for health — amino acids, minerals and vitamins. It so happened that meat is a very reasonable source of these requirements." M. Roy Schwarz, M. D., American Medical Association.
"The ideal diet contains zero meat and zero cholesterol. That holds for all people, including young women. While I think it is a step in the right direction for the meat industry to produce lean meats, the McDonald burger makes me worry that we may be dealing with something like a filtered cigarette. I don't think we're dealing with anything good in these products, just greater or lesser degrees of bad." Frank Sachs, M. D., Harvard Medical School.
"The current dietary guidelines give people a false sense of security. People think they're fine if they eat a diet that's 30 per cent calories from fat. I have a cholesterol about 200 mg. That's not always the case. Young adults' cholesterol should be 120 to 130 mg. Over age thirty, it should be under 150 mg. It's not all or nothing, but the closer one gets to the optimal diet, the more one sees the benefits." Dean Ornish, M. D., University of Carolina, San Francisco.
"The more frequently you eat red meat, the greater your chances of developing colon cancer is. Red meat contains substantial fat. Eating red meat puts you at risk for heart disease. There may be some benefit in eating red meat once or twice a week, but not necessary." Walter Willet, M. D., Dr. Ph, Harvard School of Public Health.
"Vegetarian diet reduces the risk of heart cancer, helps control diabetes, treats obesity and is kind to animals. It's an easy choice to make."
Neal Barnard, M. D., the Physicians Committee for Responsible Medicine.
All the experts we spoke with agree that you should cut back on meat. The question is how much. Some proponents of a vegetarian diet are not opposed to eating small amounts of meat. Others think that a meatless diet as a goal is a strict necessity.
If you choose to eat meat: keep portions small. Buy lean cuts and thoroughly trim external fat before cooking. Eating skinless chicken and fish but no red meat will reduce your intake of fat somewhat. If you omit meat but eat dairy products, you still need to watch fat. "If you cut out meat and replace it with high-fat cheese, you're right back where you started," says Johanna Dwyer.
The biggest problem for women, who give up meat entirely — or just eat it occasionally—is getting enough iron and zinc. Women need more iron than men do. Eating small amounts of animal protein with your meals increases iron absorption as well, says Victor Herbert, M. D. editor of "The Mount Sinai School of Medicine Complete Book of Nutrition". High-zinc foods include wheat germs, beans.
If you avoid all animal products, it is not only difficult to get iron and zinc but also sufficient calcium and vitamins D and B12. See a dietitian who can plan a diet that may include nutrient foods.
Katherine Mansfield, an outstanding English short-story writer of the 20th century, was born in New Zealand in 1888 and died in 1923. She is the author of a number of excellent short stories which deal with human nature and psychology.
At the age of eighteen she decided to become a professional writer. Her first short stories appeared in Melbourne in 1907, but literary fame came to her in London after the publication of a collection of short stories called "In a German Pension".
Katherine Mansfield took a great interest in Russian literature, particularly in the works of Chekhov. In fact, she considered herself to be a pupil of the great Russian writer.

Rosemary Fell was not exactly beautiful. She was young, brilliant, extremely modern, well dressed and amazingly well read in the newest of the new books. Rosemary had been married two years, and her husband was very fond of her. They were rich, really rich, not just comfortably well-off, so if Rosemary wanted to shop, she would go to Paris as you and I would go to Bond Street.
One winter afternoon she went into a small shop to look at a little box which the shopman had been keeping for her. He had shown it to nobody as yet so that she might be the first to see it.
"Charming!" Rosemary admired the box. But how much would he charge her for it? For a moment the shopman did not seem to hear. The lady could certainly afford a high price. Then his words reached her, "Twenty-eight guineas, madam."
"Twenty-eight guineas." Rosemary gave no sign. Even if one is rich... Her voice was dreamy as she answered: "Well, keep it for me, will you? I'll..." The shopman bowed. He would be willing of course, to keep it for her forever.
Outside rain was falling, there was a cold, bitter taste in the air, and the newly lighted lamps looked sad... At that very moment a young girl, thin, dark, appeared at Rosemary's elbow and a voice, like a sigh, breathed: "Madam, may I speak to you a moment?"
"Speak to me?" Rosemary turned. She saw a little creature, no older than herself who shivered as though she had just come out of the water.
"Madam," came the voice, "would you let me have the price of a cup of tea?"
"A cup of tea?" There was something simple, sincere in that voice; it couldn't be the voice of a beggar. "Then have you no money at all?" asked Rosemary. "None, madam", came the answer. "How unusual!" Rosemary looked at the girl closer. And suddenly it seemed to her such an adventure. Supposing she took the girl home? Supposing she did one of those things she was always reading about or seeing on the stage? What would happen? It would be thrilling. And she heard herself saying afterwards to the amazement of her friends: "I simply took her home with me." And she stepped forward and said to the girl beside her: "Come home to tea with me."
The girl gave a start. "You're — you're not taking me to the police station?" There was pain in her voice.
"The police station!" Rosemary laughed out. "Why should I be so cruel? No, I only want to make you warm and to hear — anything you care to tell me. Come along."
Hungry people are easily led. The footman held the door of the car open, and a moment later they were riding through the dusk.
"There!" cried Rosemary, as they reached her beautiful big bedroom. "Come and sit down", she said, pulling her big chair up to the fire. "Come and get warm. You look so terribly cold."
"I daren't, madam," hesitated the girl.
"Oh, please," — Rosemary ran forward — "you mustn't be frightened, you mustn't, really." And gently she half pushed the thin figure into the chair.
There was a whisper that sounded like "Very good, madam," and the worn hat was taken off.
"And let me help you off with your coat, too," said Rosemary.
The girl stood up. But she held on to the chair with one hand and let Rosemary pull.
Then she said quickly, but so lightly and strangely: "I'm very sorry, madam, but I'm going to faint. I shall fall, madam, if I don't have something."
"Good heavens, how thoughtless I am!" Rosemary rushed to the bell.
"Tea! Tea at once! And some brandy immediately."
The maid was gone and the girl almost burst into tears. She forgot to be shy, forgot everything except that they were both women, and cried out: "I can't go on any longer like this. I can't stand it. I wish I were dead. I really can't stand it!"
"You won't have to. I'll look after you. I'll arrange something. Do stop crying. Please."
The other did stop just in time for Rosemary to get up before the tea came.
And really the effect of that slight meal was amazing. When the tea-table was carried away, a new girl, a light creature with dark lips and deep eyes lay back in the big chair.
At that moment the door-handle turned.
"Rosemary, can I come in?" It was Philip, her husband.
"Of course."
He came in. "Oh, I'm so sorry," he said, as if apologizing, and stopped and stared.
"It's quite all right," said Rosemary, smiling. "This is my friend, Miss —"
"Smith, madam," said the figure in the chair.
"Smith," said Rosemary. "We are going to have a little talk."
Philip smiled his charming smile. "As a matter of fact," he said, "I wanted you to come into the library for a moment. Will Miss Smith excuse us?"
The big eyes were raised to him, but Rosemary answered for her: "Of course she will", and they went out of the room together.
"I say," said Philip, when they were alone. "Explain, who is she? What does it all mean?"
Rosemary, laughing, leaned against the door and said: "I picked her up in the street. Really. She asked me for the price of a cup of tea and I brought her home with me."
"Congratulations!" Philip sounded as though he were joking. "But what on earth are you going to do with her?"
"Be nice to her", said Rosemary quickly, "look after her. I don't know how. We haven't talked yet. Just show her — treat her — make her feel —"
"But," said Philip slowly, and he cut the end of a cigar, "she's so extremely pretty. She can't be more than twenty."
"Pretty?" Rosemary was so surprised that she blushed. "Do you think so? I — I hadn't thought about it."
"Good Lord!" Philip took a match. "She's absolutely lovely. Look again, my child. But let me know if Miss Smith is going to dine with us!"
"You absurd creature!" said Rosemary, and she went out of the library, but not back to her bedroom. She went to her writing-room and sat down at her desk. Pretty! Absolutely lovely! Her heart beat like a heavy bell. She opened a drawer, took out five pound notes, looked at them, put two back, and holding the three in her hand, went back to her bedroom.
Half an hour later Philip was still in the library, when Rosemary came in.
"I only wanted to tell you," said she, and she leaned against the door again, "Miss Smith won't dine with us tonight."
Philip put down the paper. "Oh, what's happened? Previous engagement?"
Rosemary came over and sat down on his knee. "She insisted on going," she said, "so I gave the poor little thing a present of money. I couldn't keep her against her will, could I?" she added softly.
There was a pause.
Then Rosemary said dreamily: "I saw a wonderful little box today. It cost twenty-eight guineas. Can I have it?"
"You can, little wasteful one," said he. "You know I can't deny you anything."
But that was not really what Rosemary wanted to say.
"Philip," she whispered, "am I pretty?"
